---
layout: post
title: 🌟✈️ My Journey at NUIG
subtitle : From Dreams to Data Analytics 📚🤖
tags: [me, postgrad]
author: Vigee Chin
comments : True
---

In September 2022, I embarked on a thrilling adventure to pursue my dream of studying Data Analytics at the National University of Ireland, Galway (NUIG). It was not just an academic pursuit but a chance to live out my dream of residing alone in a foreign country. Ireland beckoned, and I answered the call with enthusiasm and excitement.

<br>

As I stepped foot onto Irish soil, I was greeted not only by the lush green landscapes but also by the excitement of the unknown. Living alone in a foreign land was a dream come true, and every day felt like a new chapter waiting to be explored. Meeting new friends, immersing myself in the vibrant culture, and discovering the intricacies of life in Galway added layers of excitement to my journey.

<br>

However, the reality of academic life soon kicked in. While I had envisioned a more leisurely pace, the schedules were packed tighter than I had anticipated. With 12 modules to complete in just a year, there was no room for complacency. The academic workload demanded my full attention, and I had to adapt quickly to the fast-paced learning environment.

<br>

Yet, this challenge brought about an unexpected benefit – it sharpened my time management skills. I learned the art of prioritizing tasks and banishing procrastination from my vocabulary. The experience was intense, but it was also a valuable lesson in discipline and efficiency.

<br>

One of the most enriching aspects of my journey was the diversity of my classmates. As the only Malaysian in the class, I had the unique opportunity to connect with people from diverse backgrounds. This not only improved my English language skills but also boosted my confidence in expressing myself in a non-native language. It was a transformative experience in terms of personal growth and cultural exchange.

<br>

The heart of the program was, of course, the modules themselves. From hands-on practicals to academic writing, the curriculum was a blend of theory and application. Python and R emerged as the dynamic duo of programming languages that we harnessed for the course. We delved deep into the world of data analytics, exploring topics such as data visualization, knowledge graphs, natural language processing (NLP), and machine learning.

<br>

As the course progressed, I began to find my stride, adapting more swiftly to the demanding schedule. I even managed to juggle side projects, including freelancing online as a data engineer and working part-time at a local convenience store for night shifts on weekends. The fatigue was real, but the experiences and stories I gathered from my diverse coworkers were eye-opening and made it all worthwhile.

<br>

One of the highlights of my academic journey was the completion of a capstone project. I delved into the fascinating world of Irish vegan Twitter communities, conducting a social network analysis. The project involved collecting data from Twitter and dissecting the social capital of various engagement types, such as followers/following and mentions/retweets.

<br>

My time at NUIG has been a whirlwind of challenges and triumphs. It's a journey that has not only expanded my knowledge in data analytics but also broadened my horizons as an individual. As I prepare to graduate and continue my career as a data engineer, I carry with me the invaluable lessons and memories of this adventure. 🚀📊📈 #NUIGDataJourney #GalwayAdventures #DataAnalyticsDreams